The command line is a text interface for the computer’s operating system. To access the command line, we use the terminal.
A filesystem organizes a computer’s files and directories into a tree structure. It starts with the root directory. Each parent directory can contain more child directories and files.

##Navigating the filesystem
1.pwd Print Working Directory 
  -The shell command pwd displays the file path from the root directory to the current working directory.

2.mkdir Make Directory
  -The shell command mkdir is used to make a new directory in the filesystem according to its argument. If a file path is given, the new directory will be placed at the end. Otherwise, it will create a new directory in the current working directory.

3.ls List
  -The shell command ls is used to list the contents of a directory. If no arguments are given, it will list the contents of the current working directory.

4.cd Change Directory
  -The shell command cd is used to move throughout the filesystem of a computer. It accepts a variety of arguments:
    -Full file paths.
    -Names of children of the current directory.
    -.. the parent of the current directory.

5.Filesystem Structure
  -A computer’s filesystem organizes the data stored by a computer, so that it can be easily retrieved by the user.
Files are generally represented in a tree-like structure, in which any parent directory can have any number of children. The root directory is then found at the base of the tree.

6.touch Create New File
-The shell command touch creates a new file in the current working directory with the name provided.

7.The Command Line
-The command line allows a user to navigate the filesystem and run built-in programs or custom scripts. In Unix, the command line interface is called Bash, and the shell prompt is the $.

8.Helper Commands
  -Helper commands for the command line include:
    clear to clear the terminal
    tab to autocomplete the line
    ↑ and ↓ to cycle through previous commands

##Viewing and Changing the File System
9.Options modify the behavior of commands:
ls -a lists all contents of a directory, including hidden files and directories
ls -l lists all contents in long format
ls -t orders files and directories by the time they were last modified
Multiple options can be used together, like ls -alt

10.To copy, move, and remove files and directories:
    cp copies files
    mv moves and renames files
    rm removes files
    rm -r removes directories
    Wildcards are useful for selecting groups of files and directories


##Redirecting Input and Output
11.standard input, abbreviated as stdin, is information inputted into the terminal through the keyboard or input device. standard output, abbreviated as stdout, is the        information outputted after a process is run. standard error, abbreviated as stderr, is an error message outputted by a failed process.

12.Append Redirect shell command
   The >> shell command is used to redirect the standard output of the command on the left and append (add) it to the end of the file on the right.

13.This command will append "Hello World!" to greetings.txt
  echo "Hello World!" >> greetings.txt
  
14.Pipe shell command
  The | command is called a pipe. It is used to pipe, or transfer, the standard output from the command on its left into the standard input of the command on its right.
  First, echo "Hello World" will send Hello World to the standard output.
  Next, pipe | will transfer the standard output to the next command's standard input.
  Finally, wc -w will count the number of words from its standard input, which is 2.
  echo "Hello World" | wc -w
  
15.Redirecting Output
  The > symbol is used to redirect output by taking the output from the command on the left and passing as input to the file on the right.
  Example:  echo "Hello" > hello.txt
  
16.cat Display
  The shell command cat displays the contents of one or more files to the terminal.
  
17.grep Search
  The shell command grep is used to search files for lines that match a pattern and returns the results. Various options can be specified along with the grep command to specify the search.

  In the provided example, the lines in the file names.txt which contain “sonny” will be returned.
  Example:  grep 'sonny' names.txt
  Case insensitive search
  The shell grep command searches files for a particular pattern. The grep command with the -i option can be used to search files for lines that match a pattern, case insensitive, and returns the results.

18.grep -R shell command
    The shell command grep has a -R option (grep -R) that searches all files in a directory, including its subdirectories, and outputs filenames and lines containing matched       results.

19.Command Line Redirection
  On a command line, redirection is the process of using the input/output of a file or command to use it as an input for another file. It is similar but different from pipes, as   it allows reading/writing from files instead of only commands. Redirection can be done by using the operators > and >>.
